docs: soft 404's, Suspense and loading.tsx (#83867)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/03-api-reference/03-file-conventions/loading.mdx

### SEO

> - For HTML‑limited bots, like `Twitterbot`, Next.js resolves [`generateMetadata`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata) before streaming UI, and metadata is placed in the `<head>` of the initial HTML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For bots that only scrape static HTML, and cannot execute JavaScript like a full browser, such as Twitterbot, Next.js resolves [`generateMetadata`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata) before streaming UI, and metadata is placed in the `<head>` of the initial HTML.
```

- Otherwise, [streaming metadata](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata#streaming-metadata) may be used used. Next.js automatically detects user agents to choose between blocking and streaming behavior.
- Since streaming is server-rendered, it does not impact SEO. You can use the [Rich Results Test](https://search.google.com/test/rich-results) tool from Google to see how your page appears to Google's web crawlers and view the serialized HTML ([source](https://web.dev/rendering-on-the-web/#seo-considerations)).

### Status Codes

When streaming, a `200` status code will be returned to signal that the request was successful.

The server can still communicate errors or issues to the client within the streamed content itself, for example, when using [`redirect`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/redirect) or [`notFound`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/not-found). Because the response headers have already been sent to the client, the status code of the response cannot be updated.

> When a route resolves to a missing resource using [`notFound`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/not-found), Next.js includes a `<meta name="robots" content="noindex">` tag in the streamed HTML. This prevents search engines from indexing that URL even if the HTTP status is 200. See Google’s guidance on the [`robots` meta tag](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/robots-meta-tag).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, when a 404 page is streamed to the client, Next.js includes a `<meta name="robots" content="noindex">` tag in the streamed HTML. This prevents search engines from indexing that URL even if the HTTP status is 200. See Google’s guidance on the [`robots` meta tag](https://developers.google.com/search/docs/crawling-indexing/robots-meta-tag).
```

Some crawlers may label these responses as “soft 404s”. In the streaming case, this does not lead to indexation because the page is explicitly marked `noindex` in the HTML.

If you need a 404 status, for compliance or analytics, ensure the resource exists before the response body is streamed, so that the server can set the HTTP status code.

<details>
<summary>When is the response body streamed?</summary>

The response body starts streaming when a Suspense fallback renders (for example, a `loading.tsx`) or when a Server Component suspends under a Suspense boundary. Place `notFound()` before those boundaries and before any `await` that may suspend.

To start streaming, the response headers must be set. This is why it is not possible to change the status code after streaming started.

</details>

> Place a [`notFound`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/not-found) guard as close to the top as possible in both [`generateMetadata`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata) and your page or layout component, and avoid being inside any Suspense boundary, for example a `loading.tsx`, when doing this check. This ensures a 404 can be set before streaming:

Reviewer 2: It's worth noting that this is not a call to action. Otherwise, some might think that this is the best practice

Author: Ty - good call! I am still drafting this, need to land the correct language, otherwise I'll introduce even more confusion around soft 404's

> Place a [`notFound`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/not-found) guard as close to the top as possible in both [`generateMetadata`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/generate-metadata) and your page or layout component, and avoid being inside any Suspense boundary, for example a `loading.tsx`, when doing this check. This ensures a 404 can be set before streaming:

Reviewer: I feel like since App Router is fundamentally built on streaming, this will be an uphill battle to maintain.
